well howdy there internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
what we can learn from a group of boys
who went camping in the 1950s stick with
me on this one well in 1954 a group of
eleven Boy Scouts in the fifth grade who
never met before went camping at robbers
Cove State Park in Oklahoma they got
there a normal scouting trip set up camp
cooked for each other sporting events
that sort of thing
bonds were formed they became friends
social order quickly developed then they
found out not too far away was another
group of eleven Boy Scouts in the fifth
grade so they asked to be put in
competition with them and that
competition ensued tournament sporting
events and team challenges normal Boy
Scout stuff the winner of the tournament
was every boy was gonna get a medal and
a pocketknife big deal back in the 50s
so it didn't take long for each group to
start to see the other as they are
opposition then took names the Rattlers
and the Eagles and it kind of got out of
hand
I mean it started with name-calling and
you know they'd glorify their own
actions and denigrate those of the other
but then they started sneaking into each
other's camp and like still on their
team flag stuff like that when the
tournament was over the losing team
snuck into the winning teams camp stole
their medals in their pocket knives
and then they had to eat together at
group Mills the grudges the anger
name-calling it was all still there it's
all still there and then the camp lost
water and all the boys work together to
go check the pipes then a pickup truck
got stuck a convenient nearby rope that
they'd used for tug of war was attached
to the truck and they literally all
pulled together to get that truck
unstuck then this crazy thing happened
the insult stopped the grudges
well they're gone they became friends
when they were leaving they actually
spent money on each other at a cafe on
their way out and all of this is exactly
what the psychologists and hypothesised
was going to happen when they set it up
they intentionally chose two groups of
eleven that had never met put them near
each other they arranged the competition
they left the rope there put the truck
there turn the water off all to see what
would happen and as predicted they all
pulled together now there's a lot of
criticisms of this study some of them
are well founded some of them are one of
the big ones is that these boys were
pretty much all the same similar
backgrounds religion skin tone they're
all Boy Scouts was easy for them to come
together after being enemies the study
was repeated in 1963 in Beirut
the teams were mixed Muslim and
Christian didn't know exactly as planned
that called the experiment off early
because fighting ensued in the second
phase and it got pretty intense
but thing was the fighting was between
the red genies and the blue ghosts it's
just the team names they chose that
in-group that team because they
struggled together it overrode
everything every other identifying trait
that struggle overrode it
wonder what happens when we start to
work together all of us from our various
groups we all have to pull together
because the truck is stuck the waters
off we all have to face a struggle
together because it's something that
imperils us all those petty divisions
they disappear skin tone religion
borders
none of it would matter because we'd all
be united the thing is we have struggles
that could do that so we could all unite
behind hunger poverty getting everybody
fresh water we're not careful climate we
have the struggles we just need somebody
to leave the Rope set things in motion
get us to unite
we know what's gonna happen when the
struggle comes we will unite it's been
repeated pretty often anyway it's just a
thought now have a good night